google ai studio has free time - gemini 2
free for non commercial testing purposes

gemini 2 for summarization, even the flash light models

wiki species
what species specifically is being targeted by what threat? how reasonably species rich does it go? birds? sea birds? albatross

figure out the questions you want to ask
paper describes the why part
what questions are interesting or fulfilling enough to answer

burn some gemini credits
unsure how that works
use experimentation with key from ai studio then do keys with the paid one with rate limits

what's the min power model before you drop off results
or how well can you do this with a good model in comparison?

human experts answering questions

o1 too expensive, reasoning model for triples?


threats index
how do u categorize the threats
how do you automatically create taxonomy from this for threats

wiki species taxonomy for species

how do you take language models apply to the graphs and come up with a taxonomy, nested taxonomy

group triples, multiple effects on things
vehicles -> road vehicles, boats
knowledge graph then turning into structured taxonomy

run queries over that taxonomy, how many papers per year deal with vehicle accidents and what subset deals with road?

Threat database/taxonomy is better than model comparison because it can be more applicable to other species and things that may be interesting

conservation in action database


teach model to look up something in the tool with RAG app - just interesting side

sparkyl? what people use to find rdf triples

plan for thing to take one month, plan for the core to be one
work on cool visualizations

get the modules out of the way and get working environment up and running for the end of the month of February

brief note of what I have done the day before-
this is what i did this week and this is what i did last week, cut and paste for summary on the next week from the last week
(ppt?)

internal git for cambreidge
put project on university Cambridge git lab https://gitlab.developers.cam.ac.uk/users/sign_in

Work with ollama on the new project
lets you run an api locally so you can playu around with the smaller models
llama 3.3 7b

EEG meetings? 

GitLab opoen to anyone in the university, transfer to GitHub to open



